three dice as distinguishable—say red, green, and blue—there are 6 X 6 X 6
= 216 ways for them to fall.

In how many ways do we get three different numbers? If we take them in
order, 6 possibilities for the red, then for each of these, 5 for the green since
it must not match the red, and for each red-green pair, 4 ways for the blue
since it must not match either of the others, we get6 X 5 X 4 = 120 ways.

For a moment skip the case where exactly two dice are alike and go on to
three alike. There are just 6 ways because there are 6 ways for the red to
fall and only 1 way for each of the others since they must match the red.

This means that there are 216 — 126 = 90 ways for them to fall two alike
and one different. Let us check that directly. There are three main patterns
that give two alike: red-green alike, red-blue alike, or green-blue alike. Count
the number of ways for one of these, say red-green alike, and then multiply
by three. The red can be thrown 6 ways, then the green 1 way to match,
and the blue 5 ways to fail to match, or 30 ways. All told then we have
3 X 30 = 90 ways, checking the result we got by subtraction.

We get the expected loss by weighting each loss by its probability and
summing as follows:

none 2 3
alike alike alike

HO XO+ Be XE+ ahs X 2 = AEH 0.079"

Thus you lose about 8% per play. Considering that a play might take half a
minute and that government bonds pay you less than 4% interest for a year,
the attrition can be regarded as fierce.

This calculation is for regular dice. Sometimes a spinning wheel with a
pointer is used with sets of three numbers painted in segments around the
edge of the wheel. The sets do not correspond perfectly to the frequencies
given by the dice. In such wheels | have observed that the multiple payoffs
are more frequent than for the dice, and therefore the expected loss to the
bettor greater.

7. Curing the Compulsive Gambler

Mr. Brown always bets a dollar on the number 13 at roulette against the
advice of Kind Friend To help cure Mr Brown of playing roulette, Kind Friend
always bets Brown $20 at even money that Brown will be behind at the end of
36 plays. How is the cure working?

(Most American roulette wheels have 38 equally likely numbers. If the
player’s number comes up, he is paid 35 times his stake and gets his original
stake back ; otherwise he loses his stake )

*The sign ~ means “approximately equals ”

21
