length of the first 5 pieces is 11, and so you might estimate the total number
as 60 + 11 or 71. Of course, you cannot expect your estimate to be exactly
right very often.

The method just described makes sure that in many such estimates you
average close to the correct value. That is, imagine many problems in which
the unknown number WN is to be guessed. Follow the estimation program
described above each time (draw a sample, make an estimate). Then the
set of estimates will average close to the true value in the long run.

On the other hand, you might not be interested in being close in the long
Tun, or in averaging up well. You might want to try to be exactly right this
time, however faint the hope. Then a reasonable strategy is just to guess
the largest number you have seen. If you've seen 2 locomotives, then the

chance that a sample of 2 contains the largest is (V — »(3) or fA :

The method of confidence limits is often used to make an interval estimate.
For a description, I will confine myself to the case of one observation. If
the company has N locomotives and we draw a random one, then the
probabilities of the numbers 1, 2,..., N areeach 1/N. Therefore we can be
sure that the chance that our locomotive is in some set is the size of the
set divided by N. For example, let 1 be the random number to be drawn,
then for even values of N, P(n > N/2) = 4, and for odd values of N the
probability is slightly more. Then we can read the statement 2 > N/2 and
say that the probability is at least 4 that it is true when 7 is a random variable.
If we have observed the value of m and do not know W, but wanted to say
something about it, we could say 2n > N, and that would put an upper
bound on NW. The statement itself is either right or wrong in any particular
instance, and it is right in more than half of experiments and statements
made in this manner, If one wanted to be surer, then one could change the
limits. For example, P(n > 4N) > % The confidence statement would be
3n > N, and we would be at Jeast % sure it was correct. In our problem, if
we wanted to be at least % sure of making a statement that contains the
correct value of NV, we say N is between 60 and 180.

Another method of estimation that is much in vogue is maximum likeli-
hood. One would choose the value of N that makes our sample most likely.
For example, if N = 100, our sample value of 60 would have probability
yb; but if N = 60, its probability is 35. We can't go lower than 60 because
if N = 59 or less we can’t observe 60, and our sample would have probability
0. Consequently, if 7 is the observed value, the maximum likelihood estimate
of Nisa.

62
