. . . 2
° ° ° e i
. . ° . ov
Part of lattice of points traveled by
particles in the two-dimensional ran- ° e . e-l
dom walk problem. At each move
the particle goes one step north- . . . -2
east, northwest, southeast, or south- 3

west from its current position, the *, 5 *) 9 { 2
directions being equally likely. x

we

Solution for Two-Dimensional Random Walk

In the one-dimensional random walk, The Cliff-Hanger, Problem 35 (last
paragraph of Solution), we found the probability that the particle returns
to the origin to be unity when the probabilities of steps to the left and right
were equally likely. But matters were most delicately balanced. Had either
probability budged from 4, the particle would have walked off to infinity.
In two dimensions one might suppose that the particle has plenty of space
to wander off to infinity. Let us see. I plan to find the average number of
times a particle returns to the origin, and from this to deduce the probability
that the particle returns. First, how many times will a particle come back to
the origin? If P is the probability of a return, then 1 — P = Q is the
probability of no return. The probability of exactly x returns is P*Q, be-
cause after each return the particle might as well be regarded as starting over.
If P were known, then the mean number of returns to the origin could be
computed from this geometric series as

w= >> xP70.
z=0
Looking back at Problem 4 on trials until first success, we find the mean
number to be the reciprocal of the probability of success. In that problem
the success terminated the series. Here a non-return to the origin terminates
the series, and so the mean number of trials to first success is 1/Q. Conse-
quently, the mean number of successes is 1/Q — 1. If Q = 1, then the
mean number of successes is 0, that is, with probability one a particle gets
lost and never returns. On the other hand, the smaller Q is, the larger the
mean number of returns. Indeed, for every Q there is a mean number of
returns and for every mean there is a Q. If the mean number of returns be-
fore final escape were infinite (unbounded), then Q would have to vanish,
and P would equal I. More formally, as » tends to », P tends to 1. Now to

82
