of the region divided by the area of the square. Since the coin is 3 inch in
radius, its center must not land within 3 inch of any edge if the player is to
win. This restriction generates a square of side 4 inch within which the
center of the coin must lie for the coin to be in the square. Since the proba-
bilities are proportional to areas, the probability of winning is (4)? = yy.
Of course, since there is a chance that the coin falls off the table altogether,
the total probability of winning is smaller still. Also the squares can
be made smaller by merely thickening the lines. If the lines are ~ inch
wide, the winning central area reduces the probability to (3)? = 38% or
less than 3g.

6. Chuck-a-Luck

Chuck-a-Luck is a gambling game often played at carnivals and gambling
houses. A player may bet on any one of the numbers 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. Three dice
are rolled. If the player's number appears on one, two, or three of the dice, he
receives respectively one, two, or three times his original stake plus his own
money back; otherwise he loses his stake. What is the player’s expected loss
per unit stake? (Actually the player may distribute stakes on several numbers,
but each such stake can be regarded as a separate bet.)

Solution for Chuck-a-Luck

Let us compute the losses incurred (a) when the numbers on the three dice
are different, (b) when exactly two are alike, and (c) when all three are alike.
An easy attack is to suppose that you place a unit stake on each of the six
numbers, thus betting six units in all. Suppose the roll produces three
different numbers, say 1, 2, 3. Then the house takes the three unit stakes on
the losing numbers 4, 5, 6 and pays off the three winning numbers 1, 2, 3.
The house won nothing, and you won nothing. That result would be the
same for any roll of three different numbers.

Next suppose the roll of the dice results in two of one number and one of
a second, say 1, 1,2. Then the house can use the stakes on numbers 3 and 4
to pay off the stake on number 1, and the stake on number 5 to pay off that
on number 2. This leaves the stake on number 6 for the house. The house
won one unit, you lost one unit, or per unit stake you lost 4.

Suppose the three dice roll the same number, for example, 1, 1, 1. Then
the house can pay the triple odds from the stakes placed on 2, 3, 4 leaving
those on 5 and 6 as house winnings. The loss per unit stake then is 3. Note
that when a roll produces a multiple payoff the players are losing the most
on the average.

To find the expected loss per unit stake in the whole game, we need to
weight the three kinds of outcomes by their probabilities. If we regard the

20
