55. Long Needles

In the previous problem let the needle be of arbitrary length, then what is the
mean number of crosses?

Solution for Long Needles

Let the needle be divided into n pieces of equal lengths so that all are less
than 1. If we toss each of these little needles at random, each will have a
mean number of crosses obtained from the previous problem. The mean
of the sum is the sum of the means, and so their expected number of crosses
is 4(original length)/x. The fact that the needle was not tossed as a rigid
structure does not matter to the mean.

For purposes of estimating x the experiment of tossing a long needle on a
grid of squares represents a substantial improvement over the original Buffon
problem. Why not get some graph paper and try it? I used a toothpick and
graph paper ruled in half-inch squares. The toothpick was 5.2 half-inches
jong. I decided on 10 tosses, got 8, 6, 7, 6, 5, 6, 7, 5, 5, 7 crosses, totaling
62. My estimate for x is 4(5.2)/(62/10) = 3.35, instead of 3.14. A friend
of mine also made 10 tries, producing 67 crosses, yielding the estimate 3.10.

56. Molina’s Urns

Two urns contain the same total numbers of balls, some blacks and some
whites in each. From each urn are drawn n ( > 3) balls with replacement. Find
the number of drawings and the composition of the two urns so that the proba-
bility that all white balls are drawn from the first urn is equal to the probability
that the drawing from the second is either all whites or all blacks.

Discussion for Molina’s Urns

E. C. Molina invented this problem to display Fermat’s famous conjec-
ture in number theory as a probability problem.

Let z be the number of white balls in the first urn, x the number of whites
and y the number of blacks in the second. Then we want to find integers
n, x, y, and z so that

(5) - G5) + 5)

z= x® 4 yr

or

Although, for many values of n, it is known that this equation cannot be
satisfied, it is not known whether it is impossible for all values of n > 3.
But it is known to be impossible for n < 2000.

88
