And, of course, for either sex, the implications of these results for the
choice of a marriage partner may repay careful study for those who are
still single.

In the previous problem the wise man has no information about the dis-
tribution of the numbers. In the next he knows exactly.

48. Choosing the Largest Random Number

As a second task, the king wants the wise man to choose the largest number
from among 100, by the same rules, but this time the numbers on the slips are
randomly drawn from the numbers from 0 to 1 (random numbers, uniformly
distributed). Now what should the wise man’s strategy be?

Solution for Choosing the Largest Random Number

The very first number could be chosen if it were large enough, for example,
0.99900, because the chance of getting a number larger than this later, let
alone choosing it, is only 1 — (0.999)®® = 0.1.

As before, we have to choose between a candidate on hand and the chance
that a later number will be larger and we will choose it. We work back from
the end. If we have not chosen before the last draw, we choose it, and it
wins or loses. If we have not chosen before the next-to-last draw and it is a
candidate (largest so far), we choose it if it is larger than 4, reject it if it
is less, and are indifferent to 4 itself. If it were less than 4, we have a better
chance of winning if we go on.

If we have gotten to the third draw from the end and if we have a candidate
x as the value on the slip, the probabilities of 0, 1, or 2 larger numbers later
are x”, 2x(1 — x), and (1 — x)?, respectively. If we choose the next number
larger than x, the probability of winning later is

ax(l — x) + Hl — 9),

because if there are 0 later, we cannot win by going on; if 1, we are sure to
win; and if 2 are larger than x, the chance is only 4 that we choose the
larger. If I am indifferent to a number at some draw, I would not be in-
different to it at a later draw; instead, I would want to choose it because I
do not have as many opportunities to improve my holdings as I did earlier.
Consequently, when two numbers larger than the indifference number x are
present later in the sequence, we can be sure I would choose the first one.
It has only a 50-50 chance of being the larger of the two. Thus, in com-
puting what would happen if we decline to choose an indifference number
that has been drawn, we can be sure, in general, that the best strategy chooses
the next drawing whose value exceeds the indifference number in hand.

77

48
