corners, you may know that the fraction returning is about 0.35.* Apparently
then 8 equally likely moves reduces the chance of returning more than 6.

The same techniques for a 4-dimensional random walk where 4 coins are
tossed to find the vector to be added to the present coordinates show that
the probability of return is reduced to 0.105.

53. Buffon’s Needle

A table of infinite expanse has inscribed on it a set of parallel lines spaced
2a units apart. A needle of length 2/ (smaller than 2a) is twirled and tossed on
the table. What is the probability that when it comes to rest it crosses a line?

Solution for Buffon’s Needle

This is a great favorite among geometric probability problems. The figure
shows how the needle might land so that it just touches one of the parallels.
We only need to look at one half-segment, because the symmetries handle
the rest.

The vertical position of the needle does not matter because moving it up
or down leaves the state of crossing or not crossing a vertical line unchanged.
What matters is the needle’s angle with the horizontal and the distance of
the center of the needle from its nearest parallel. The center P is equally
likely to fall anywhere between the parallels (assumption of uniform dis-
tribution); and for a fixed value of the angle 6, the chance that the line crosses
one of the parallels is 2x/2a, because the line crosses a parallel if the center
falls within x units of either parallel—see the dashed needles in the figure.
Because of the twirling, the angle 6
might as well be thought of as uni-
formly distributed from 0 to +/2
radians (or in degrees from 0° to
90°), because crossings that happen
for angle @ also happen for angle
x — 6 (or in degrees 180° — 6). All
we need then is the mean value of
x/a, or, since x = I cos @, the mean
value of (//a)cos 6. This average can
be found by integrating

Va m2

aso cos 6d6 = 21/xa.

. . Solid needles touch one parallel
The x/2 in the denominator on the line; the dashed needles cross one.

*W. Feller, Probability theory and its applications, \st ed., Wiley, 1950, p. 297.

86
