left makes the probability 1 that 6 is between 0 and x/2. We can also write,
remembering 2/ is the length of the needle,

2(length of needle)

P(needle crosses a parallel) = circumference of circle of radius a”

Why is this problem a favorite? I think because it suggests a relation
between a pure chance experiment and a famous number x. You could
actually construct such a table—it needn’t be quite infinite—with rulings,
say, an inch apart; often ordinary graph paper is so ruled. Get a needlelike
object, perhaps an inch long, and keep track of the fraction of times the
needle crosses a line. Then x may be estimated as about 2/(proportion of
crosses). You won't get close to x very fast this way, and this estimate is
always a rational number (if you get some crosses), but the charming thing
is that there is any relation at all between a universal constant like x and a
chance experiment. Instead of doing this experiment, wait a bit, we'll have a
better one in Problem 55. If geometrical probabilities interest you, take a
look at: Joseph Edwards, Treatise on integral calculus, Vol. II, Chelsea
Publishing Co., New York, 1954 (originally printed by Macmillan in 1922).
M. G. Kendall and P. A. P. Moran, Geometrical probability, Griffin's Statis-
tical Monographs and Courses No. 10, Hafner Publishing Company, New
York, 1963.

54. Buffon’s Needle with Horizontal and Vertical Rulings

Suppose we toss a needle of length 2/ (less than 1) on a grid with both hori-
zontal and vertical rulings spaced one unit apart. What is the mean number of
lines the needle crosses? (I have dropped 2a for the spacing because we might
as well think of the length of the needle as measured in units of spacing )

Solution for Buffon’s Needle with Horizontal
and Vertical Rulings

The mean number of vertical rulings crossed is the same as the probability
of crossing a vertical ruling. From the previous problem (with a = 4), it
is 4//x. The mean number of horizontal rulings crossed must also be 4//r
because it is the same problem if you turn your head through 90°. The
mean of a sum is the sum of the means, and so the mean total number of
crossings is 8//z.

if the needle is of length 1, the mean number of crosses is 4/x ~ 1.27.

Up to now we have worked with needles shorter than the spacing, what
about longer needles?

87
