2. Successive Wins

To encourage Elmer’s promising tennis career, his father offers him a prize
if he wins (at least) two tennis sets in a row in a three-set series to be played
with his father and the club champion alternately: father-champion-father or
champion-father-champion, according to Elmer’s choice. The champion is a
better player than Elmer's father. Which series should Eimer choose?

Solution for Successive Wins

Since the champion plays better than the father, it seems reasonable that
fewer sets should be played with the champion. On the other hand, the
middle set is the key one, because Elmer cannot have two wins in a row
without winning the middle one. Let C stand for champion, F for father,
and W and L for a win and a loss by Elmer. Let f be the probability of
Elmer’s winning any set from his father, ¢ the corresponding probability
of winning from the champion. The table shows the only possible prize-win-
ning sequences together with their probabilities, given independence between
sets, for the two choices.

Father first Champion first

Set with: F CF _ Probability C F C_ Probability
WWW feof WWW oe

WWL fel —f) WWL ¢ofl-o

L ww (—fof L ww (1-—ofe

Totals fe(2 — f) fe2 — ¢)

Since Elmer is more likely to best his father than to best the champion, f
is larger than c, and 2 — f is smaller than 2 — c, and so Elmer should
choose CFC. For example, for f = 0.8, c = 0.4, the chance of winning
the prize with FCF is 0.384, that for CFC is 0.512. Thus the importance of
winning the middle game outweighs the disadvantage of playing the champion
twice.

Many of us have a tendency to suppose that the higher the expected number
of successes, the higher the probability of winning a prize, and often this
supposition is useful. But occasionally a problem has special conditions
that destroy this reasoning by analogy. In our problem the expected number
of wins under CFC is 2c + f, which is less than the expected number of
wins for FCF, 2f-+ c. In our example with f = 0.8 and c = 0.4, these
means are 1.6 and 2.0 in that order. This opposition of answers gives the
problem its flavor. The idea of independent events is explained in PWSA,
pp. 81-84.

7
