Discussion for An Experiment in
Personal Taste for Money

No cic can say what amount is appropriate for you to pay for either game.
Even though your expected value in the first game is $5, you may not be
willing to pay anything near $5 to play it. The loss of $3 or $4 may mean
too much to you. Let us suppose you decided to offer 75¢.

What we can say is that you should be willing to pay at least as much to
play the second game as the first. You can always choose your own color
at random by the toss of a coin and thus assure that you have a fifty-fifty
chance of being right and therefore an expectation of $5. Furthermore, if
you have any information about your friend's preferences, you can take
advantage of that to improve your chances.

Most people feel that they would rather play the first game because the
conditions of the second seem more vague. I am indebted to Howard Raiffa
for this problem, and he tells me that the idea was suggested to him by
Daniel Ellsberg.

Il. Silent Cooperation

Two strangers are separately asked to choose one of the positive whole numbers
and advised that if they both choose the same number, they both get a prize.
if you were one of these people, what number would you choose?

Discussion for Silent Cooperation

I have not met anyone yet who would choose more than a one-digit num-
ber; and of these only 1, 3, and 7 have been chosen. Most of my informants
choose 1, which seems on the face of it to be the natural choice. But 3 and 7
are popular choices.

12. Quo Vadis?

Two strangers who have a private recognition signal agree to meet on a certain
Thursday at 12 noon in New York City, a town familiar to neither, to discuss
an important business deal, but later they discover that they have not chosen a
meeting place, and neither can reach the other because both have embarked on
trips. If they try nevertheless to meet, where should they go?

Discussion for Quo Vadis?

My daughter when asked this question said enthusiastically “Why, they
should meet in the most famous place in New York!” “Fine,” I said,
“where?” “How would I know that?” she said, “I’m only 9 years old.”

27

12
