While the calculation of the distribution for the length of the leftmost
segment is easy, and you could get the rightmost one by symmetry, you
might boggle at finding the distribution for the second or third segment.
You may have guessed already that they are the same as that for the leftmost
segment, but most people do not. It is the purpose of the next remarks to
make that proposition reasonable.

Instead of dropping points on a unit interval, let us drop them on a circle
of unit circumference; instead of three points, let us drop four and call the

fourth one z.
¥

10
Zz

Four points dropped on a circle of unit circumference.

Thus, the points x, y, w are dropped at random on a unit interval as before,
but it does not have a scale on it. We drop the fourth point z, also at random.
The four points have all been treated alike, and the four segments of the
circle, here (zx), (xy), (yw), and (wz), arise from a process equitable to all
segments. Imagine dropping four points many times and each time getting
the distance from z to the first counterclockwise point, from there to the next,
and so on. Then we would generate four distributions of segment lengths,
and these distributions would be alike across many drops of 4 points.

Now for each drop, cut the circle at z, and straighten it into a unit interval
labeling the ends 0 and 1 as implied by the figure. The drop of four points
on a circle using z as a cut is equivalent to a drop of three points on the unit
interval.

Although you may still have lingering doubts, we shall not give a formal
proof, but we do state the principle.

PRINCIPLE OF SYMMETRY: When n points are dropped at random on an
interval, the lengths of the n + 1 line segments have identical distributions.

39. The Clumsy Chemist

In a laboratory, each of a handful of thin 9-inch glass rods had one tip marked
with a blue dot and the other with a red. When the laboratory assistant tripped
and dropped them onto the concrete floor, many broke into three pieces. For
these, what was the average length of the fragment with the blue dot?

