Preface

This book contains 56 problems although only 50 are promised. A
couple of the problems prepare for later ones; since tastes differ, some
others may not challenge you; finally, six are discussed rather than solved.
If you feel your capacity for challenge has not been exhausted, try proving
the final remark in the solution of Problem 48. One of these problems
has enlivened great parts of the research lives of many excellent mathe-
maticians. Will you be the one who completes it? Probably not, but it
hasn’t been proved impossible.

Much of what I have learned, as well as much of my intellectual en-
joyment, has come through problem solving. Through the years, I’ve found
it more and more difficult to tell when 1 was working and when playing,
for it has so often turned out that what I have learned playing with problems
has been useful in my serious work.

In a problem, the great thing is the challenge. A problem can be chal-
lenging for many reasons: because the subject matter is intriguing, because
the answer defies unsophisticated intuition, because it illustrates an im-
portant principle, because of its vast generality, because of its difficulty,
because of a clever solution, or even because of the simplicity or beauty
of the answer.

In this book, many of the problems are easy, some are hard. A very
few require calculus, but a person without this equipment may enjoy the
problem and its answer just the same. J] have been more concerned about
the challenge than about precisely limiting the mathematical level. In a few
instances, where a special formula is needed that the reader may not have
at his finger tips, or even in his repertoire, I have supplied it without ado.
Stirling’s approximation for the factorials (see Problem 18) and Euler’s
approximation for the partial sum of a harmonic series (see Problem 14)
are two that stand out.

Perhaps the reader will be as surprised as I was to find that the numbers
x, which relates diameters of circles to their circumferences, and e, which
is the base of the natural logarithms, arise so often in probability problems.

In the Solutions section, the upper right corner of the odd-numbered
pages carries the number of the last problem being discussed on that page.
We hope that this may be of help in turning back and forth in the book. The
pages are numbered at the bottom.

v
