of + 100% (0 < 4 < 1) on any net positive income that he has won there.
It is therefore no harder or easier for him to win y dollars with an initial
fortune of x than it is for his brother in the Golden Paradise to win y/(1 — 1)
dollars. The greatest probability with which he can achieve his goal is
therefore

ay

The Paradise Lost

Here, the croupier collects the tax of ¢ 100% on the positive income, if
any, of each individual gamble. The gambler here is evidently in no way
better off than his brother in the Lesser Paradise. In particular, (1) is an
upper bound on the probability of winning y with an initial fortune of x
in the Paradise Lost. This probability can be achieved by staking all on a
single chance as before. However, it cannot be achieved by any strategy that
has positive probability of employing some gamble that has positive proba-
bility of winning any positive amount less than y after taxes. To see this,
consider that the Lesser Paradise brother can imitate any strategy of the
Paradise Lost brother, setting aside for his own later use whatever the
croupier takes from the Paradise Lost brother in taxes on small prizes. Thus,
the former can have a higher expected income than the latter can have on
any strategy in which he risks winning a small prize.

_ =x
(= ox+y

Red-and-Black

In Red-and-Black, the gambler can stake any amount in his possession
against a chance of probability w (0 < w < 4) of winning a prize equal
to his stake. Put differently, he wins the fair prize of (1 — w)/w times his
stake subject to an immediate tax of 1 100%, where

pole r®,
— l=w

Therefore the probability for a gambler in Red-and-Black to win y with an
initial fortune of x is at most (1), as it is for his brother in Paradise Lost.
In terms of w, this is

wx
Q) wx + (1 wy

Moreover, the bound (2) can be achieved only if the gambler in Red-and
Black can avoid any positive probability of ever winning a positive amount
less than y on his individual gambles and be sure of either losing exactly x
or winning exactly y. As is not hard to see, this can occur only if y = x, in
which case he can win y with a single bold gamble with the probability w
given by (2).

37

37
