Solution for Bold Play vs. Cautious Play

Bold play, as Lester E. Dubins and Leonard J. Savage call it in their
How to gamble if you must*, that is, betting $20 at once, gives hima
probability of 48 ~ 0.474 of achieving his goal.

Cautious play, a dollar at a time, leads us to the gambler’s ruin problem
with

m = 20, n= 20,
P= 4h 9g = 3.

Substituting into the formula for M’s chance to win obtained in Problem 36
gives us

Gh 7 7a * Ol

20
p- 1- @®) 8.23 — 1
1
Cautious play has reduced his chances of reaching the goal to less than one-
fourth of that for bold play.

The intuitive explanation is that bold play is also fast play, and fast play
teduces the exposure of the money to the house’s percentage. We have
several times seen that intuitions based on averages do not always lead to
correct probabilities. Dubins and Savage warn that no known proof of the
merits of bold play, in general, is based upon this intuitive argument.
However, Dubins points out that for our special case of doubling one’s
money at Red-and-Black, the following exposition by Savage is so based.
In preparing this discussion for us, Savage has deliberately glossed over a
couple of mathematical fine points dealing with the attainability of bounds.

The Golden Paradise

At the Golden Paradise they sell any fair gamble that a gambler has the
funds to stake on. A gambler who enters the Golden Paradise with x dollars
bent on making an income of y additional dollars, if possible, can achieve
his goal with probability x/(x + y) by staking his entire fortune x on a
single chance of winning y with probability x/(x + y), which is plainly
fair. As is well known, no strategy can give him a higher probability of
achieving his goal, and the probability is this high if and only if he makes
sure either to lose x or win y eventually.

The Lesser Paradise

The Lesser Paradise resembles the Golden Paradise with the imoortant
difference that before leaving the hall the gambler must pay an income tax

*First published, 1965 Reprinted by Dover Publications, Inc in 1976 under the title
Inequalities for stochastic processes

56
