because we must get equal numbers of east and west moves as well as equal
numbers of north and south moves. (I ought really to put subscripts on X
and Y, writing X2n, but it makes the page look horrible to me and frightening
to some.) We plan to sum, approximately, these probabilities to get the
expected number of returns. For large values of n we can apply Stirling’s
approximation given in Problem 18 and get

CG)" = Sta)” = Seeing

2 2
ws 1//an.

For good-sized n then

. sot 1
P(particle at origin) ~ a

We need to sum over the values of n. Recall from Problem 14 that
~_,1/n = log,N is a number which is unbounded as N grows. What we
have computed is the probability that the particle is at the origin at the end
of steps numbered 2, 4, 6, 8,..., 2. Each of these probabilities is also the
mean number of times the particle is at the origin at the end of exactly 2n
trials. To get the mean total number of times the particle is at the origin,
we sum because the mean of the sum is the sum of the means. Therefore the
mean number of returns to the origin is unbounded, and therefore the
probability of return to the origin is P = 1. And so each particle not only
returns, but returns infinitely often. More carefully, I should say nearly
every particle returns infinitely often, because there are paths such as the
steady northeast course forever that allow some particles to drift off to
infinity. But the fraction of such particles among all of them is zero.

e 52. Three-Dimensional Random Walk

As in the two-dimensional walk, a particle starts at an origin O in three-space.
Think of the origin as centered in a cube 2 units on a side. One move in this
walk sends the particle with equal likelihood to one of the eight corners of the
cube. Thus, at every move the particle has a 50-50 chance of moving one unit
up or down, one unit east or west, and one unit north or south. If the walk
continues forever, find the fraction of particles that return to the origin.

Solution for Three-Dimensional Random Walk

Now that we know that in both one and two dimensions the particle returns
to the origin with probability one, isn’t it reasonable that it will surely return
for any finite number of dimensions? It was to me, but I was fooled.

84
