These inequalities yield, after a little algebra, the condition

1 1
@) Tom 1S*™S yoy

+1.

Thus unless 1/(1 — 2p) is an odd integer, N is uniquely determined as the
nearest even integer to 1/(1 — 2p). When 1/(1 — 2p) is an odd mteger,
both adjacent even integers give the same optimum probability. And we
can incidentally prove that when 1/(1 — 2p) = 2n + 1, Pon = Ponyo-

Consequently for p = 0.45, we have 1/(1 — 0.9) = 10 as the optimum
number of plays to choose.

This material is abbreviated from “Optimal length of play for a binomial
game,” Mathematics Teacher, Vol. 54, 1961, pp. 411-412.

P. G. Fox originally alluded to a result which gives rise to this game in
“A primer for chumps,” which appeared in the Saturday Evening Post,
November 21, 1959, and discussed the idea further in private correspondence
arising from that article in a note entitled “A curiosity in the binomial ex-
pansion—and a lesson in logic.” I am indebted to Clayton Rawson and John
Scarne for alerting me to Fox’s paper and to Fox for helpful correspondence.

45, Average Number of Matches

The following are two versions of the matching problem:
(a) From a shuffled deck, cards are laid out on a table one at a time, face up
. from left to right, and then another deck is laid out so that each of its cards is
ery Sey beneath a card of the first deck. What is the average number of matches of the
4 hee card above and the card below in repetitions of this experiment?
¢ (b) A typist types letters and envelopes to 7 different persons. The letters are
randomly put into the envelopes. On the average, how many letters are put into
their own envelopes?

Solution for Average Number of Matches

Let us discuss this problem for a deck of cards. Given 52 cards in a deck,
each card has | chance in 52 of matching its paired card. With 52 oppor-
tunities for a match, the expected number of matches is 52(¢;) = 1; thus,
on the average you get 1 match. Had the deck consisted of n distinct cards,
the expected number of matches would still be 1 because n(1/n) = 1. The
result leans on the theorem that the mean of a sum is the sum of the means.

More formally, each pair of cards can be thought of as having associated
with it a random variable X; that takes the value | when there is a match
and the value 0 when there is not. Then

E(X,) = 1(!) + o(1 - ‘ = i.

68
