Places that come to mind in 1964 are top of the Empire State Building,
airports, information desks at railroad stations, Statue of Liberty, Times
Square. The Statue of Liberty will be eliminated the moment the strangers
find out how hard it is to get there. Airports suffer from distance from
town and numerosity. That there are two important railroad stations seems
to me to remove them from the competition. That leaves the Empire State
Building or Times Square. I would opt for the Empire State Building,
because Times Square is getting vaguely large these days. I think their
problem would have been easier if they had been meeting in San Francisco
or Paris, don’t you?

13. The Prisoner’s Dilemma

Three prisoners, 4, B, and C, with apparently equally good records have
applied for parole. The parole board has decided to release two of the three, and
the prisoners know this but not which two. A warder friend of prisoner A
knows who are to be released. Prisoner A realizes that it would be unethical to
ask the warder if he, A, is to be released, but thinks of asking for the name of
one prisoner other than himself who is to be released He thinks that before he
asks, his chances of release are §. He thinks that if the warder says “‘B will be
released,” his own chances have now gone down to 4, because either A and B
or Band C are to be released. And so A decides not to reduce his chances by
asking. However, A is mistaken in his calculations Explain.

Solution for The Prisoner’s Dilemma

Of all the problems people write me about, this one brings in the most
letters.

The trouble with A’s argument is that he has not listed the possible events
properly. In technical jargon he does not have the correct sample space.
He thinks his experiment has three possible outcomes: the released pairs
AB, AC, BC with equal probabilities of 4. From his point of view, that is
the correct sample space for the experiment conducted by the parole board
given that they are to release two of the three. But A’s own experiment adds
an event—the response of the warder. The outcomes of his proposed
experiment and reasonable probabilities for them are:

1, A and B released and warder says B, probability 4.
2. Aand C released and warder says C, probability 4.
3. Band C released and warder says B, probability 4.
4, Band C released and warder says C, probability 3.

If, in response to A’s question, the warder says “‘B will be released,” then
the probability for A’s release is the probability from outcome 1 divided by

28
