Some Plausible Solutions for
Lengths of Random Chords

Until the expression “‘at random” is made more specific, the question
does not have a definite answer. The three following plausible assumptions,
together with their three different probabilities,
illustrate the uncertainty in the notion of “at

—————
random” often encountered in geometrical prob-
ability problems. (i \/ \

We cannot guarantee that any of these results B
would agree with those obtained from some
physical process which the reader might use to \ Wy)
pick random chords, indeed, the reader may
enjoy studying empirically whether any do agree.

Let the radius of the circle be r.

(a) Assume that the distance of the chord from the center of the circle
is evenly (uniformly) distributed from 0 to r. Since a regular hexagon of
side r can be inscribed in a circle, to get the probability, merely find the
distance d from the center and divide by the radius. Note that d is the
altitude of an equilateral triangle of side r. Therefore from plane geometry

we get d = »/r2 — r2/4 = r\/3/2. Consequently, the desired probability
is

A Cc

rV3/2r = V3/2 = 0.866.

(b) Assume that the midpoint of the chord is evenly distributed over the
interior of the circle. Consulting the figure again, we see that the chord is
longer than the radius when the midpoint of the chord is within d of the
center. Thus all points in the circle of radius d, concentric with the original
circle, can serve as midpoints of the chord. Their fraction, relative to the
area of the original circle, is xd?/ar? = d?/r? = } = 0.75. This proba-
bility is the square of the result we got from assumption (a) above.

(c) Assume that the chord is determined by two points chosen so that
their positions are independently evenly distributed over the circumference
of the original circle. Suppose the first point falls at A in the figure. Then
for the chord to be shorter than the radjus, the second point must fall on the
arc BAC, whose length is 4 the circumference. Consequently, the probability
that the chord is longer than the radius is 1 — 4 = 3.

26. The Hurricd Duelers

Duels in the town of Discretion are rarely fatal. There, each contestant comes
at a random moment between 5 a.M. and 6 A M on the appointed day and leaves.
exactly 5 minutes later, honor served, unless his opponent arrives within the time
interval and then they fight. What fraction of duels lead to violence?
